To create an alert in Dynatrace when a Kubernetes pod's status is "Not Ready" and its phase is not "Succeeded", you can use Dynatrace's DQL (Dynatrace Query Language) to monitor these metrics and create custom alerts.

Step 1: Query Pod Status and Phase using DQL
You can use Dynatrace's metrics related to pod readiness and pod phase. The two key metrics to monitor are:

kubernetes.pod.ready: Indicates whether a pod is ready (true or false).
kubernetes.pod.phase: The phase of the pod, such as Running, Pending, Succeeded, etc.
DQL Query Example:
dql
Copy code
fetch k8s:pod
| filter podReady == false and podPhase != "Succeeded"
| summarize count() by podName, namespace, podPhase
This query checks for pods that are not ready and are not in the Succeeded phase.

Step 2: Set Up a Custom Event for Alerting
Go to Dynatrace Console:

Navigate to Settings -> Anomaly detection -> Custom events for alerting.
Create a New Custom Event for Alerting:

Event type: Select Metric event.
Define Metric:

Metric: Search for kubernetes.pod.ready and kubernetes.pod.phase.
You can optionally filter to specific namespaces or clusters if needed.
Set Alert Conditions:

Set conditions based on pod readiness and phase:
Condition 1: kubernetes.pod.ready == false
Condition 2: kubernetes.pod.phase != "Succeeded"
Combine both conditions using a logical AND.
Alerting Threshold:

You can specify the threshold for the alert to trigger when the condition is met (e.g., alert if any pod meets the criteria over a time window).
Configure Notification:

Set up the alerting profile and choose your notification channel (email, Slack, webhook, etc.).
Save and Activate:

Save the custom event, and Dynatrace will trigger alerts when a pod is not ready and its phase is not Succeeded.
Example Configuration:
Condition:
Metric: kubernetes.pod.ready == false
AND
Metric: kubernetes.pod.phase != "Succeeded"
Step 3: Visualization and Dashboard
Use the DQL query to create a custom dashboard showing the status of pods.
Set up real-time monitoring to track pods that fail to reach the "Ready" state and don't move to the "Succeeded" phase.
Summary:
Query pod readiness and pod phase using DQL.
Set up a Custom Event for Alerting based on the pod not being ready and not in the Succeeded phase.
Configure notification channels for real-time alerts.
This approach ensures you'll receive alerts when pods are not ready and haven't reached the successful completion phase.
